Instructions for Java aspects of Spins program

SPINS is available as an application or as an Applet.  Java 1.2 or higher is
required, since we use Swing components and some other Java 2 code.

To run the spins Applet, you need the Java plugin.  This comes as part of JRE
1.4 (Java Runtime Engine) and higher.  You can install JRE by going to the Sun
website and downloading the installer for your system: 
http://java.sun.com/j2se/

To run the Spins application (spins.jar), you need a Java environment.  If you
just want to run Java apps, then simply install the JRE (j2re) (Java Runtime
Engine).  If you want to compile Java code, then you will need to install the
Java SDK (j2sdk) (Standard Develpment Kit).  Once you have either of these
installed, you can run the Spins application by simply double clicking on
spins.jar, or you can type
>java -jar spins.jar
from a command line (in the directory where spins.jar resides).

If you wish to edit the code and recompile, you can do the following:
>javac Spins.java
	recompiles all necessary files
>java Spins
	runs the application
>jar cvfm spins.jar mainclass.mf *.class spinhelp.html images
	makes the application into a jar file
>java -jar spins.jar
	runs the jar file

To edit and test the Applet try:
>javac SpinsApplet.java
	recompiles the Applet
>jar cvf SpinsApplet.jar *.class spinhelp.html images
	makes the Applet into a jar file
>appletviewer spinapplet.html
	uses Java Appletviewer to run the applet 

The Java application and applet have run under Unix, Windows, and Mac OS X.

Some common problems with the Java implementation are:

1)  Windows and dialog boxes open up smaller than expected.  Simply drag the
lower right corner to expand.
2)  Data entered in angle chooser or User State doesn't seem to be
recognized.  Make sure you push enter or tab after each entry.   You can open
the dialog again to check the data.  On some machines you must choose another
Unknown and then come back to User State to open that dialog box again.
3)  On some Mac OS X machines the graphics flash on and off while atoms are
being counted.  No fix for this yet.
4)  If you have trouble with the applet not running, you can trying using the
older web link:
www.physics.orst.edu/~mcintyre/ph425/spins/spinsapplet_old.html

David McIntyre
13 January 2004
